greetings everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here once again bringing you another
edition of the China history podcast
well we've knocked off the Shah the
Shang and now we have the last and final
dynasty of China's Bronze Age and pre
Imperial period the Jo dynasty actually
these three the Shang Joe all sort of
form a single period in ancient China
they're known as the three dynasties of
Bronze Age China and sort of acts as the
foundation for everything that was to
follow
once the Joe period ended and the Qin
came in 221 BC and unified China under
the first emperor Qin Shi Huangdi the Jo
dynasty ran covered a cover for 790
years from 1046 BC to 256 BC this makes
it the longest dynasty in Chinese
history by far but there are several
caveats about this the Jo dynasty sort
of went like this it was founded in 1046
BC by King Joel and the capital was set
up in the way River Valley in Shaanxi
things went well for a while but in less
than 200 years the dynasty starts at
slow steady decline until it was soundly
defeated and the capital pillaged and
this was in 771 BC then the capital gets
moved East to where present-day jeongjo
is located this new period beginning in
770 BC was called the eastern Jo as
opposed to the one that had just bitten
the dust the western choke are you with
me so far to 790 year dynasty first 275
years are referred to now as the western
Jo and in the next five hundred and
fifteen years comprised the eastern Jo
but here's where it gets tricky the
eastern Jo is divided up between the
spring and autumn or twin-choke period
and the warring States or jonquil period
they had two hundred ninety four years
and two hundred and nineteen years
respectively now during this Eastern Jo
period the multitude of feudal lords
gave face to the dynasty and everyone
sort of treated the emperor with the
reverence he was due as son of heaven
and all but the Jo Emperor during this
Eastern Jo period was nothing more than
a figurehead and
part-time referee between occasionally
competing states so to call it a 790
year dynasty is sort of a stretch but
let's give it to him anyways with the Jo
period we rarely get to see some
hardcore documentary evidence of their
times
none of this oracle bone stuff less and
less as the Jo dynasty races towards the
end of the millennium dates get more and
more specific and less approximate you
see coins gained in popular you so
bourgeoisie develops who as the dynasty
progresses and the economy expands
thanks to the discovery of iron and the
refinement of the Chinese written
language begin to rival the lifestyles
and extravagances of the Zhuo kings and
other royalty by this time the world was
really starting to crank up man's clever
mastery of metallurgy allowed his
socio-economic development to really
shift into higher gear the iron age in
China began during the Cho Dynasty the
earlier Western Cho Kings were in very
good company with developing
civilizations around the world what was
contemporary with the Western Cho
Dynasty Homer Romulus and Remus King
David King Solomon the Assyrians and the
Babylonians the 22nd of the twenty-fifth
dynasties in Egypt in the 26th was
basically the last one so the New
Kingdom in Egypt was coming to an end
the Phoenicians and the great city of
Carthage were on the rise this was a
time of incredible changes going on in
the world in China this period was one
of the most dynamic periods in the
development of Chinese culture and
arguably the most creative period in the
history of the Chinese mind these were
the days of lotsa confucius monks of the
greatest of the literary works revered
from dynasty to dynasty were produced
during this time the Wu Jing and Suh
shoe which comprised the nine classics
were all produced during this period now
when we cover the podcasts on Chinese
philosophy will examine all these great
works we'll also touch on them when we
look more closely at the eastern Zhuo
period in the next part
test in this podcast we're gonna examine
the Western Jo period from 10:46 BC to
771 BC and save the eastern jo the
spring and autumn and warring States
period for the next show
I was thinking 790 years might be a
little bit too much to cover over the
period of one single episode so we left
off in the last podcast covering the
Shang is ji Chang writer of the eaching
and known to us as Joel when Wong or
King won organized all the tribes from
the way River Valley and started to
revolt and bring down the xiang around
1050 1025 BC he dies before he has
vanquished them and his son Chifa known
as joel wong finishes them off at mooyah
in 1045 bc and that's the end of the
evil jean king joe sheen and his
sadistic concubine da zhi shi of the
polishing fame which you might recall
from the shang dynasty podcast so around
10:45 BC whose dates are still in
dispute the Cho dynasty is established
and the capitalist is set up at how
Ching it's written the people of the
Yellow River Valley rejoiced that's such
a good and virtuous King as Joel Wong
had come to power Kings won and were
accepted as liberators and it was their
descendants the G family who served as
the kings of this dynasty after the
Shang was overthrown the Joe King
parceled out the lands and spoils of war
to his various kinsmen military
commanders and to other Nobles who had
shown their unwavering support and this
is the way it all worked for the Jo
dynasty thus began the Golden Age of
feudalism or fun Jen she died in ancient
China this was the age that brought us
all those fabulous epic costume dramas
from Chinese cinema and TV the deal was
the Jo kings gave the land to all their
most noble supporters in the form of
subordinate fiefs and these fiefdom were
all hereditary and so it went that in
return for this land these supporters of
Choa would accept them as their king and
would show reverence to all the Joe
ancestors from these fiefdom grew the
states that would one day become so
prominent and even Eclipse the Joe when
it when the dynasty began its slow
decline in the eighth and ninth
centuries BC it was these fiefdom that
evolved into the states of yen gene Qi
and Luo to name a few
the Joel model was that you had the
dynasty in the center ruling out of
their capital and surrounded by all
these minor states and a kind of federal
cohesion all excepting that Joe is the
superior entity with the Emperor holding
the ultimate prestige as the son of
heaven now the earliest antecedents to
these feudal kingdoms began during the
primitive periods in China even before
the shot where the many agricultural
communities scattered around the Yellow
River basin would take various kinds of
measures to defend themselves in the
land they cultivated life was a very
simple back then and cities had yet to
develop agricultural implements were
still very primitive the smaller or
weaker communities would band together
or get absorbed by the bigger and
stronger ones then they'd all joined
together under a common chief or strong
man whose role was to lead the community
and defense against the constant threat
of invading barbarians and crouching on
their lands
now these Chiefs would gradually evolve
into princes or the kind of leaders
suggestive of royalty or aristocracy way
back when you hit as many as seventeen
hundred of these principalities for the
most part these consisted of a walled
town surrounded by all the land under
cultivation and then you'd have smaller
walled compounds sort of like suburbs
and everyone would band together for the
common defense in time these 1700 would
consolidate until they were about 55
that were spread out across the cradle
of Chinese civilization in northern
Hunan Xiang XI Shan XI Hebei and
Shandong so King would he dies within a
couple of years of his victory at mooyah
in Xi'an and
so enters one of the greats from all
those centuries upon centuries of
Chinese history enter the Duke of jo-jo
gone he was king Wong's brother he went
down in history as the one most credited
with the building of the OL state and
creating all the institutions that would
lie at the center of the Cho dynasty and
would be used in various forms
throughout the remainder of Imperial
Chinese history
so King Wu dies and it falls on his
brother joel gong to act as regent for
king whose young son and legitimate heir
the future king chung there was
competition for the throne in the form
of others who also claimed legitimacy
and who teamed up with other former
chung elements who had yet to capitulate
to the joe's supremacy
there was a brief succession crisis but
those opposed to qing chun were soundly
defeated and joe gong acted as the
ultimate regent and guided the young
prince until he was ready to take over
the kingship then in a manner in which
Americans hold George Washington in such
high esteem for handing in his sword
after the revolution the Duke of Joe who
had been given the title of Regent upon
King Wu's death after successfully
guiding the kingdom through a bit of a
succession crisis also stepped down and
handed over the reins of power to Qing
Chun for this great act he is revered in
China and his Regency served as the
model for all future regencies in China
and there were more than a few with the
power and loyalty Chong enjoyed he could
have easily used CERP the throne and had
Chung pushed aside or killed but he
didn't Jones set up an alternative
capital to the east in law yang in 1035
BC and he is credited with writing the
rights of Joe or the Joe Lee one of the
three most sacred of the ancient ritual
texts the Mandate of Heaven or ten Ming
was clearly explained heaven was not an
anthropomorphic God instead it was an
impersonal force the supreme force in
nature an entire code of how to organize
the civilization was explained in the
Jolie
in every source I studied they took a
quote from the Analects of Confucius who
showed his reverence for the Duke of Joe
when he said quote how I have gone
downhill it has been such a long time
since I dreamt of the Duke of Joe
Confucius view Joe Kong is the ultimate
Regent the concept of the Mandate of
Heaven was clearly defined in the Jolie
Joe Kong wrote that the power on this
earth was derived from this supreme
entity heaven who provided this mandate
that was entirely contingent on the
virtuous and pious conduct of the holder
of this mandate the king ruled as the
representative of heaven Tim on earth
rather than as some kind of divine king
sort of like the Pope if I had to find
some sort of real-life comparison
coupled with this worthy aristocrats and
trained bureaucrats who administered the
government who lord it over the peasants
who tilled the soil and lived in
patriarchal societies and the peasants
were given civil rights but they had no
voice in government or their fate you
also had a cabinet of sorts with six
ministers who looked after the Emperor
and his affairs and oversaw all the
rites and rituals of the religion and
they also held responsibility for war
and all the preparations for war the
administration of justice and organizing
public works in theory the choli was the
perfect coat on both conduct and
government so Qing Chun ruled for thirty
years from 1035 to 1003 BC and was
followed by his son who went down in
history as King Kong not King Kong
if Confucius had become King he'd be
King Kong since he was from the house of
comb but King Kong ruled from 1003 to
978 BC in this period saw the Western
Joe at its height but with the next two
Kings the Joe hmm sort of hits the skids
first came King Joe who tried to subdue
the mighty true state to the south and
ended up dying in that ill-fated war
9:57 BC he was followed by King mu who
reigned until 918 BC we're now in the
final millennium BC here in
was during this time that ancient
China's literary culture starts to take
off the Xiang left most of their
historical record and oracle bones and
tortoise shells the Jo
they preferred bronze as their substrate
of choice these Zhuo bronzes constituted
the treasure trove of records and
learning that survived to modern times
so we're now in 841 B see that's where
recorded history and China begins it's
in this year 841 BC on a certain date
that an eclipse was mentioned on a
specific day that historians
mathematicians and scientists have been
able to positively trace this Eclipse
was mentioned in conjunction with an
account of a battle where King Li of Jo
who ruled from 878 to 828 BC was soundly
defeated and driven from power during a
popular revolt that ushered in a new
Regency for a while this is the first
truly confirmed date in the long history
of China everything up till now is sort
of ballpark at best by this time the Jol
rituals were continuing to develop
bronzes became grander and more
magnificent to keep up with the scale
and the complexity of all these rituals
you started to see more and more of the
famous Jo dynasty bells these were tuned
bells made from bronze by this time the
characteristics of what we come to know
as the Chinese gentlemen had evolved
into a very strict code of conduct the
code of manners ceremonies and the
strict code of honor had been firmly
established in fact it became so strict
that it actually became sort of a
religion of the ancient Chinese
aristocracy and the officials of the
court during the ninth century BC
writing had continued to develop and we
begin to see more and more Chinese
characters that are recognizable today
as opposed to what the Xiang left us all
the Shang characters found on the oracle
bones were in a very archaic form and
not many of them were recognizable to
the eye that's educated in this amazing
written script as writing evolved it
allowed the old rulers to better project
power through the magic of communication
an 860 BC the true invade the Jo tear
taury unsuccessfully and try again in
855 with more success by now they were
starting to be more and more incursions
into the Dro territory from all these
nasty hordes coming out of the steppes
of western China in 827 Qing Shen fought
back aggressively and won back son lost
territory but it was some heavy-handed
tactics taken by the Joe King in the
state of Lu in present-day Shandong
province that proved to be the dynasty's
undoing from this point on as stated in
somach ends sure gee no one looked to
the Joe any further as the great power
that it had once been what the Holy
Roman Emperor was to Europe so the Jol
emperors had become by 781 BC that Joe
is definitely nose-diving
he had a series of earthquakes solar and
lunar eclipses that in those days
offered irrefutable proof that the
Mandate of Heaven had been lost all it
took was of course one venal and
extravagant Emperor to bring everything
to a crashing end enter King yo yo yo
Wong and of course his concubine who was
said to be one of the most beautiful
women in Chinese history follow suit
King yo just couldn't get this concubine
to smile or even act nice around him but
alas he found he can do something that
just provided endless amusement to
concubine Basu he figured out that if he
raised the alarm in the palace to warn
the army that they were being attacked
by assuages giggle and COO with pleasure
watching all the soldiers assembling and
doing their thing after the alarm was
raised King yo did this a few times or
several times who knows and each time he
made chumps out of the soldiers and
their commanders
so like the boy who cried wolf when
these genuine barbarians attacked the
Capitol in 771 BC they refused to rise
to the alarm and the king was killed and
the Capitol ransacked and destroyed and
that my friends was the end of the Jo
dynasty or what became known as the
Western Jo dynasty from that point on
the capital was moved eastward to
jeongjo and instead
and 70 BC the eastern Joe started now
the Eastern Joe well it's included as
part of the entirety of the Choate
dynasty because for all intents and
purposes the Joel Emperor still lived in
the capital and did his Emperor thing
carrying out the duties as the son of
heaven but he had absolutely no power
outside of the capital and all these
vassal states had developed its kingdoms
and their own rights the major players
of the eastern choke period were not the
Emperor's as much as the emerging states
themselves and their various leaders
Chinese culture takes center stage
during the Eastern Chow and we'll take a
look at that next week when we cover
that period for now this is your humble
narrator and host Laszlo Montgomery
wishing you a fond adieu
not from lovely Claremont California but
this time from the town of Woburn
Massachusetts I'm here on business and
happy to say I'm heading back to
beautiful Claremont tomorrow I'll be
flying back to Ontario International
Airport the intelligent and stress-free
alternative to the horror that is LAX
join us each week here at the China
history podcast as we bring you a new
and interesting topic from the annals of
Chinese history feel free to visit the
website at China History podcast.com
comments and questions are always
welcome take care everyone